>> Mike North: Generics
only usable in TypeScript,
cuz this has everything to do with types.
The purpose of generics is we want to be
able to reuse code across many types,
interfaces, functions.
We wanna be able to leverage
it multiple times and
we need to express a relationship between,
types a constraint
like you're going to give me an argument
of a particular type and I'm going to
return a particular type that depends
on the type of argument you passed me.
So in this case we've got
something that is exactly that.
It's a function called gimmieFive and
whatever you give it it'll return
an array with five of that thing in it.
Right, so
in the case where we pass it three
the type it returns is a number array.
If we give it the string egg then
the value of eggs is gonna be an array,
with five of the string egg in it.
So here's how it works,
you see after the name of the function we
have what is called the type parameter.
That needs to go in angle brackets,
T is a convention you'll see.
Usually it's a single
letter that people use for
this which is a convention
left over from C++ days.
These were known as template parameters in
C++, they are known as generics in Java
and also generics here.
>> Mike North: And so
we define a type parameter and
now that's sort of a placeholder for
a type to be determined later.
And then we say you're going to give me x,
which is of a certain type and
I'm going to return an array
of that certain type.
So this function here is sort of defined
in an abstract way, but as soon as we pass
a value into it, now we know exactly
what that's going to be, right?
We pass it a number and so, yes,
T is a number for that first invocation.
And for the second one, T is string for
that second invocation.
>> Mike North: So
this takes a little getting used to and
particularly designing good
functions around generics.
It is something that can certainly
be done very poorly if you don't
feel like overly constraining things or
if you're not using the generic properly.
In this case, it's useful because we
don't have to return an array of any,
like we could've expressed this.
As gimmieFive and I take an any and
I return an array of any's.
But we would've basically had to
cast that immediately thereafter,
in order to use that array in something
that would want an array of numbers.
So we don't get that type safety
because we would have to cast.
Now it's sort of we took responsibility,
for knowing about the types of things
as opposed to, this taking responsibility
and taking that off of our plate.
So we can express arrays this way too
we've been expressing arrays until now
using some type and then square brackets,
so now I'm showing you we can pass
it into, a type parameter of
the capital A array type.
So this would be an array
of 52 undefined's but
the type of that array is that tuple
there, just like a card dealing exercise.
Promises, we can pass
a promise a generic parameter.
And that will be the type of value that
that promise resolves to, which is really,
really nice.
If you've been working with promises for
a while,
it's most JavaScript building
web applications to do,
you kinda lose a lot of information
about what this promise is all about.
And especially with functions
that take arguments as Promises
>> Mike North: You need some context and
you basically need to trace backwards,
like, where did this come from?
What were you asking for?
What can I expect as a response?
Is there a fetch somewhere inside that?
Then it's probably
a response you're gonna get.
So now we have type
safety around promises,
not just about it being a promise but
it resolving to something reasonable.
Finally tomorrow, when we dig into
react components we can take in two
template parameters, one which represents
props and one which represents state.
So props are the things that you can
pass a reactive component as attributes
almost like HTML attributes.
State is sort of the internal
things that have to be tracked by
that component in order for
it to operate normally.
So that might be like if it's an accordion
you know whether it's open or
closed, that could be
considered the state.
The benefit here is if you then,
add something to the react component
if you pass something in that was not
listed as one of the props, that you
should be passing to the component or
say you misspell it,
type descriptor will catch you.
Or if that component, if you say okay,
well we're gonna enhance this and
now I need this value and
you add that to props.
Now you're gonna get problems showing up
in your problems tab, there will say,
okay, well,
all these consumers of this component,
now you must give me something for that.
You are no longer given me an object that
I can assign to this prop’s interface,
right?
It is not of correct type, and so
now you have a list of things to do.
As opposed to, what are the alternatives?,
like a git grab through your code base and
try to do it the way we were doing
it in 1992, this is a better
way.
>> Mike North: In
addition to just taking
in a type parameter t,
you can describe
a constraint on a generic.
So this would take any type
that can be assigned to, or
that is at least structure of point two d.
So this would be able to, for example,
depending on the implementation of this
algorithm here, you could say, look,
I will calculate the mid point of two,
two dimensional points or two,
three dimensional points.
Or if you can find a way to represent
time as a number in this point things,
something where I can treat at
the same way as I treat distance.
I can even do like a four dimensional
point, space and time and
find like the midpoint of your flight
from one place at one time to
another place at another time.
And you would get back the correct type,
you would not get just a Point2D back,
you would not get an any back.
You get back something that represents
the same thing that you put in, right?
But this type constraint here, what you're
doing here is you're saying first of don't
just give me any type, don't give me
a string, I want a Point 2D at least.
And then from within this function,
you're gonna get on,
as far as properties you'll
allowed to access at p1 and p2,
you will be able to refer to things
that are at least what point2D has.
Right, as long as you can do
whatever work you need to do.
Say there's like a property on
there called chords and for
points in higher dimensions you might
have more numbers in that array.
It is possible that you have
the information you need and
you can return the appropriate type.
There are even ways that you
can instantiate a new object of
type T providing that part
of the Point2D interface is
a constructor.
>> Mike North: And
then down low, you can see we can
use it with an interface as well.
So we've used it with a function and
with an interface and
this interface basically says to be
a file reader, you must have a function.
So file reader is expressed in terms of
a file type and say T extends File, so
we might have like JPEGFile.
Right, so if you implemented the interface
IFileReader and then pass in
JPEGFile as the template parameter there,
now you must have a function
that takes a single argument which is
a JPEGFile type and it returns a blob.
So this is, is sort of one more
layer of abstraction out and
you can take multiple template parameters,
if you wish.
You just need to separate them by commas,
before you close the angle brackets.